docs/nodes/talos-cluster/monitoring-logging.md, before:

# Talos Cluster - Monitoring + Logging

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur.

## Monitoring

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur.

```kroki-c4plantuml
@startuml
!include C4_Component.puml

skinparam backgroundColor transparent
skinparam fontColor #E2E4E9
skinparam arrowColor #E2E4E9

skinparam NoteFontColor #E2E4E9
skinparam NoteBorderColor #E2E4E9
skinparam NoteBackgroundColor #1E2129

LAYOUT_LEFT_RIGHT()

Component(grafana, "Grafana Cloud", "SaaS", "Monitoring Solution as a Service")

System_Boundary(talos, "Talos Kubernetes Cluster") {
    Component(node_exporter, "Node Exporter", "Base Component", "Metrics for Monitoring")
}

Rel(grafana, node_exporter, "Consume", "HTTPS")

note top of node_exporter: Running on all worker nodes and control plane

@enduml
```

- [Node Exporter on `talos-cp.fritz.box`](http://talos-cp.fritz.box:30091)
- [Node Exporter on `talos-w1.fritz.box`](http://talos-w1.fritz.box:30091)
- [Node Exporter on `talos-w2.fritz.box`](http://talos-w2.fritz.box:30091)
- [Node Exporter on `talos-w3.fritz.box`](http://talos-w3.fritz.box:30091)

!!! warning "TODO"
    - Diagram with all components

## Logging

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur.

!!! warning "TODO"
    - Diagram with all components

Commit message:

feat: monitor talos cluster with grafana cloud

docs/nodes/talos-cluster/monitoring-logging.md, after:

# Talos Cluster - Monitoring + Logging

In this document, we will explore the monitoring and logging setup for the Talos Kubernetes Cluster. Monitoring and logging are crucial aspects of managing and maintaining a healthy and performant cluster. By implementing effective monitoring and logging solutions, we can gain insights into the cluster's performance and (hopefully) detect possible issues.

We rely on Grafana Cloud as much as possible to provide a managed monitoring solution. Since we only want to monitor our homelab, we rely on the Free Tier.

- [Sommerfeld.io on Grafana Cloud](https://sommerfeldio.grafana.net)

Relying on Grafana as an external cloud service has the advantage of not having to manage the monitoring infrastructure ourselves. Plus, in case of an outage, we can still access the monitoring data from outside the cluster to analyze the issue. For more details on why we chose Grafana Cloud, see [ADR-002 - Talos RasPi: Prometheus and Grafana inside Kubernetes vs outside on the admin-pi vs Grafana Cloud](https://github.com/sommerfeld-io/configs-homelab/issues/35) on GitHub.

## Monitoring

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur.

```kroki-c4plantuml
@startuml
!include C4_Component.puml

skinparam backgroundColor transparent
skinparam fontColor #E2E4E9
skinparam arrowColor #E2E4E9

skinparam NoteFontColor #E2E4E9
skinparam NoteBorderColor #E2E4E9
skinparam NoteBackgroundColor #1E2129

LAYOUT_LEFT_RIGHT()

Component(grafana, "Grafana Cloud", "SaaS", "Monitoring Solution as a Service")

System_Boundary(talos, "Talos Kubernetes Cluster") {
    Component(node_exporter, "Node Exporter", "Base Component", "Metrics for Monitoring")
}

Rel(grafana, node_exporter, "Consume", "HTTPS")

note top of node_exporter: Running on all worker nodes and control plane

@enduml
```

- [Node Exporter on `talos-cp.fritz.box`](http://talos-cp.fritz.box:30091)
- [Node Exporter on `talos-w1.fritz.box`](http://talos-w1.fritz.box:30091)
- [Node Exporter on `talos-w2.fritz.box`](http://talos-w2.fritz.box:30091)
- [Node Exporter on `talos-w3.fritz.box`](http://talos-w3.fritz.box:30091)

!!! warning "TODO"
    - Diagram with all components

## Logging

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur.

!!! warning "TODO"
    - Diagram with all components
