docs/nodes/talos-cluster/telemetry.md, before:

# Talos Cluster - Telemetry

The namespace `telemetry` contains all components related to monitoring, logging and observability of the Talos Kubernetes Cluster. The name `telemetry` is inspired by the concept of collecting and analyzing system data.

## Prometheus & Grafana

The Prometheus & Grafana stack is deployed into the cluster itself through the [Prometheus Operator](https://prometheus-operator.dev/docs/getting-started/introduction). Prometheus Operator is a [Kubernetes Operator](https://github.com/cncf/tag-app-delivery/blob/main/operator-wg/whitepaper/Operator-WhitePaper_v1-0.md#foundation) that provides Kubernetes native deployment and management of [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io) and related monitoring components.

The Prometheus Operator is installed through a [Helm Chart](https://github.com/prometheus-community/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/kube-prometheus-stack). The installation is done by ArgoCD.

## `node-exporter`

...

## `kube-state-metrics`

...

## ArgoCD metrics

...

Commit message:

refactor: access grafana through a node port

docs/nodes/talos-cluster/telemetry.md, after:

# Talos Cluster - Telemetry

The namespace `telemetry` contains all components related to monitoring, logging and observability of the Talos Kubernetes Cluster. The name `telemetry` is inspired by the concept of collecting and analyzing system data.

- Grafana UI: <http://talos-cp.fritz.box:30000>

## Prometheus & Grafana

The Prometheus & Grafana stack is deployed into the cluster itself through the [Prometheus Operator](https://prometheus-operator.dev/docs/getting-started/introduction). Prometheus Operator is a [Kubernetes Operator](https://github.com/cncf/tag-app-delivery/blob/main/operator-wg/whitepaper/Operator-WhitePaper_v1-0.md#foundation) that provides Kubernetes native deployment and management of [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io) and related monitoring components.

The Prometheus Operator is installed through a [Helm Chart](https://github.com/prometheus-community/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/kube-prometheus-stack). The installation is done by ArgoCD.

To access the Grafana UI, we added a `NodePort` service to the Grafana deployment. The service is exposed on port `30000`. We created a copy of the `kube-prometheus-stack-grafana` service inside the `telemetry` namespace and changed the service type to `NodePort`. The copy is named `kube-prometheus-stack-grafana-nodeport`.

- `node-exporter` is a Prometheus exporter for hardware and OS metrics exposed by *NIX kernels. It is shipped as part of the `kube-prometheus-stack` Helm Chart.
- `kube-state-metrics` is a simple service that listens to the Kubernetes API server and generates metrics about the state of the objects. It is shipped as part of the `kube-prometheus-stack` Helm Chart.

??? note "Not included in the default setup"
    - **Data Persistence:** By default, the operator configures Pods to store data on emptyDir volumes which aren’t persisted when the Pods are redeployed. See <https://prometheus-operator.dev/docs/platform/storage>.
    - **Absent components**: The helm chart does not install all components of kube-prometheus, notably excluding the Prometheus Adapter and Prometheus black-box exporter. They may be added later if needed.

### ArgoCD metrics

Argo CD exposes different sets of Prometheus metrics per server. The "Application Controller Metrics" about applications can be scraped at the `argocd-metrics:8082/metrics` endpoint.

The default metrics services from ArgoCD are not accessible from outside the cluster. To expose them, we have set up our own services that basically are a copy of the default services but as a NodePort service.

- **Application Controller Metrics**: The Application Controller in ArgoCD is responsible for managing and reconciling the desired state of applications.
- **ArgoCD Server**: The ArgoCD Server is the core component that provides the web-based user interface and API for managing applications and GitOps workflows.
- **Repo Server**: The Repo Server in ArgoCD is responsible for interacting with Git repositories to fetch application manifests and sync application states.

!!! warning "Work in Progress"
    Still to do ... as of now there are no argo metrics

## Kubernetes Dashboard

The Kubernetes Dashboard is a general-purpose, web-based UI for Kubernetes clusters. It allows users to manage applications running in the cluster and troubleshoot them, as well as manage the cluster itself.

The Kubernetes Dashboard is deployed inside the Kubernetes cluster. In case the Prometheus-Grafana stack is down, we still have access to the Kubernetes Dashboard to inspect the cluster.

- Run `~/port-forward-kubernetes-dashboard.sh` from the Vagrantbox (`components/talos-cluster/virtual-talos-admin/Vagrantfile`) to retrieve a Bearer Token and to port-forward the Kubernetes Dashboards web interface.
