# ansible-cli.sh

Command line interface to run Ansible playbooks.

## Overview
This Bash script allows to running Ansible playbooks. The script is designed to simplify the management of Ansible playbooks.

The script uses a Docker container to run Ansible, ensuring that your system remains clean and free from dependencies. The Docker container is pre-configured with Ansible and all required dependencies.

To run playbooks successfully, make sure to run `ssh-copy-id <REMOTE_USER>@<REMOTE_HOST>.fritz.box` first to ensure seamless connects to all remote machines. Run `ssh-copy-id <LOCAL_USER>@<LOCAL_HOST>.fritz.box` for your local machine as well (if this machine is listed in the host inventory.). Otherwise Ansible might fail when connecting to your local machine via its FQDN.

```bash
ssh-copy-id sebastian@caprica.fritz.box
ssh-copy-id sebastian@kobol.fritz.box
```

!!! info
    Ansible expects the user `sebastian` to be present on all nodes. This user is the default user for each node (workstation, server and RasPi). Normally this user is created when installing an operating system through its setup wizard. This scripts exits with `exitcode=8` if this user does not exist.

Overall, this script is designed to simplify the management of Ansible playbooks by providing a clean and automated environment for running them.

### Usage
The script does not accept any parameters.

## Prerequisites
Before using this script, you need to ensure that Docker 24.0.6 or greater is installed on the system which runs the playbooks. The script assumes that the Docker engine is running, and the user has necessary permissions to execute Docker commands.

## Ansible Playbooks
This script automatically detects all Ansible playbooks in the `components/homelab/src/main/ansible/playbooks` folder.

### Playbook: `desktops-main.yml`
This Ansible playbook is designed to configure basic settings, directory structure, and software packages for Ubuntu desktop machines. The playbook also includes some tasks that are shared with other playbooks to ensure a consistent setup among all machines.

### Playbook: `desktops-steam.yml`
This Ansible playbook is designed to install Steam on Ubuntu desktop machines.

### Playbook: `raspi-main.yml`
This Ansible playbook is designed to configure basic settings, directory structure, and software packages for Raspberry Pi machines. The playbook also includes some tasks that are shared with other playbooks to ensure a consistent setup among all machines but uses a reduced tasks set.

### Playbook: `update-upgrade.yml`
This Ansible playbook is designed to update all packages to their latest version and perform an aptitude safe-upgrade on Ubuntu and RaspberryPi OS machines (both are Debian-based).

<!-- !    DO NOT EDIT DIRECTLY !!!!!                              -->
<!-- !    File is auto-generated by pipeline                      -->
<!-- !    Contents are based on files from docs/contents/about    -->
