# docker-stacks-cli.sh

Command line interface to control Docker Compose services on your local machine.

## Overview
This Bash script that acts as a command line interface to control Docker Compose services on your local machine. The script provides an easy-to-use interface for managing your Docker Compose services, allowing you to start, stop, and restart your containers with a few simple commands. It is intended to simplify the management of Docker Compose services by providing a set of convenient and intuitive commands that allow you to control your containers quickly and easily.

The script auto-detects the services from the filesystem and provides a select menu to choose a stack. Once you select the stack, the script will provide you with a set of commands to manage the containers within from the respective Docker Compose definition.

This script is intended to simplify the management of Docker Compose services on your local machine. It provides a convenient, consistent and reproducible way to manage the Docker containers through an easy-to-use interface that allows you to control your containers quickly and efficiently.

### Prerequisites
Before using this script, you need to ensure that Docker and Docker Compose is installed on the system. The script assumes that the Docker engine is running, and the user has necessary permissions to execute Docker commands.

### Usage
The script does not accept any parameters.

<!-- !    DO NOT EDIT DIRECTLY !!!!!                              -->
<!-- !    File is auto-generated by pipeline                      -->
<!-- !    Contents are based on files from docs/contents/about    -->
