docs/nodes/talos-cluster/howto/interact.md, before:

# How to interact with the Talos Cluster

This guide provides an overview of how to interact with a Talos-managed Kubernetes cluster using talosctl and kubectl, the primary tools for managing and interacting with Talos nodes and Kubernetes workloads respectively.

## `talosctl`

`talosctl` expects flags to identify the targeted node and the cluster management endpoint.

```bash
talosctl --nodes talos-cp.fritz.box --endpoints talos-cp.fritz.box dashboard
talosctl --nodes talos-w1.fritz.box --endpoints talos-cp.fritz.box dashboard
talosctl --nodes talos-w2.fritz.box --endpoints talos-cp.fritz.box dashboard
talosctl --nodes talos-w3.fritz.box --endpoints talos-cp.fritz.box dashboard
```

To avoid specifying the flags every time, the Ansible playbook wrote aliases onto the `admin-pi` node.

```bash
talosctl-cp dashboard
talosctl-w1 dashboard
talosctl-w2 dashboard
talosctl-w3 dashboard
```

## `kubectl`

`kubectl` can be used from the `admin-pi` right away. The `kubeconfig` file is already configured to point to the Talos cluster. The `bootstrap-talos.sh` merged the config into `~/.kube/config`.

## k9s

`k9s` is a terminal-based UI to interact with Kubernetes clusters. The tool is installed on the `admin-pi` and uses the same `kubeconfig` file as `kubectl`.

## ArgoCD

!!! warning "TODO"
    How to login? User/Pass? URL?

Commit message:

docs: interact with kubernetes through ArgoCD

docs/nodes/talos-cluster/howto/interact.md, after:

# How to interact with the Talos Cluster

This guide provides an overview of how to interact with a Talos-managed Kubernetes cluster using talosctl and kubectl, the primary tools for managing and interacting with Talos nodes and Kubernetes workloads respectively.

## `talosctl`

`talosctl` expects flags to identify the targeted node and the cluster management endpoint.

```bash
talosctl --nodes talos-cp.fritz.box --endpoints talos-cp.fritz.box dashboard
talosctl --nodes talos-w1.fritz.box --endpoints talos-cp.fritz.box dashboard
talosctl --nodes talos-w2.fritz.box --endpoints talos-cp.fritz.box dashboard
talosctl --nodes talos-w3.fritz.box --endpoints talos-cp.fritz.box dashboard
```

To avoid specifying the flags every time, the Ansible playbook wrote aliases onto the `admin-pi` node.

```bash
talosctl-cp dashboard
talosctl-w1 dashboard
talosctl-w2 dashboard
talosctl-w3 dashboard
```

## `kubectl`

`kubectl` can be used from the `admin-pi` right away. The `kubeconfig` file is already configured to point to the Talos cluster. The `bootstrap-talos.sh` merged the config into `~/.kube/config`.

## k9s

`k9s` is a terminal-based UI to interact with Kubernetes clusters. The tool is installed on the `admin-pi` and uses the same `kubeconfig` file as `kubectl`.

## ArgoCD

To interact with your Talos Cluster through ArgoCD, follow these steps:

1. **Retrieve the Default Admin Password:** On the `admin-pi.fritz.box`, you can retrieve the password for the default ArgoCD user admin by running the following command:

    ```bash
    kubectl -n argocd get secret argocd-initial-admin-secret -o jsonpath="{.data.password}" | base64 -d
    ```

1. **Access the ArgoCD UI via Port Forwarding:** To access the ArgoCD UI, use the following command on the `admin-pi.fritz.box` to port-forward the ArgoCD server's service:

    ```bash
    kubectl port-forward -n argocd svc/argocd-server 8080:80 --address 0.0.0.0
    ```

1. **Access ArgoCD from a Browser:** Once port-forwarding is active, open a web browser and navigate to <https://admin-pi.fritz.box:8080>. You will likely see a security warning due to the self-signed certificate. You can safely ignore this warning and proceed to the login page.

1. **Login to ArgoCD:** On the login page, use the default credentials to log in:

    ```plaintext
    Username: admin
    Password: The password retrieved in step 1
    ```

    Once logged in, you will have access to the ArgoCD dashboard where you can manage your applications and configurations deployed to the Talos Cluster.
