docs/index.md, before:

# Introduction to Homelab Configs
[doc-website]: https://sommerfeld-io.github.io/configs-homelab
[github-repo]: https://github.com/sommerfeld-io/configs-homelab
[file-issues]: https://github.com/sommerfeld-io/configs-homelab/issues
[project-board]: https://github.com/orgs/sommerfeld-io/projects/1/views/1

This project contains infrastructure configurations and docs for my workstations, servers and RasPi nodes. All infrastructure follows the infrastructure as code pattern.

- [Documentation Website][doc-website]
- [Github Repository][github-repo]
- [Where to file issues][file-issues]
- [Project Board for Issues and Pull Requests][project-board]

## Requirements and Features
This section outlines the basic requirements and features of the project. These requirements serve as a guideline for the development of the application and provide a clear overview of the expected functionality.

- Install all necessary software on workstations and servers. Follow Infrastructure as Code (IaC) principles. Ansible is used for this purpose.
- Every machines run services (some of them are mandatory for every machine). These services run inside Docker containers. The containers are controlled through scripts from this project.

## Usage
This project contains several [scripts](scripts/index.md) to control the respective function set.

## Scope and Context
This configuration set is intended to work specifically for our machines. You might be able to adopt some stuff from this project, but using it "as is" most likely will result in failure.

## Architecture Constraints
Workstations, servers and RasPi nodes are using similar operating systems.

- Every workstation and server is using Ubuntu as operating system.
- Every RasPi node is using Raspberry Pi OS (which is based on Debian) or Ubuntu Server as operating system.

This is a constraint that is not likely to change in the future.

## Contact
Feel free to contact me via <sebastian@sommerfeld.io> or [raise an issue in this repository][file-issues].

Commit message:

docs: some components should roun outside of dev container

docs/index.md, after:

# Introduction to Homelab Configs
[doc-website]: https://sommerfeld-io.github.io/configs-homelab
[github-repo]: https://github.com/sommerfeld-io/configs-homelab
[file-issues]: https://github.com/sommerfeld-io/configs-homelab/issues
[project-board]: https://github.com/orgs/sommerfeld-io/projects/1/views/1

This project contains infrastructure configurations and docs for my workstations, servers and RasPi nodes. All infrastructure follows the infrastructure as code pattern.

- [Documentation Website][doc-website]
- [Github Repository][github-repo]
- [Where to file issues][file-issues]
- [Project Board for Issues and Pull Requests][project-board]

## Requirements and Features
This section outlines the basic requirements and features of the project. These requirements serve as a guideline for the development of the application and provide a clear overview of the expected functionality.

- Install all necessary software on workstations and servers. Follow Infrastructure as Code (IaC) principles. Ansible is used for this purpose.
- Every machines run services (some of them are mandatory for every machine). These services run inside Docker containers. The containers are controlled through scripts from this project.

## Usage
This project contains several [scripts](scripts/index.md) to control the respective function set.

When developing, make sure to take a look at the [Dev Container Dockerfile](generated/devcontainer-dockerfile.md) docs.

## Scope and Context
This configuration set is intended to work specifically for our machines. You might be able to adopt some stuff from this project, but using it "as is" most likely will result in failure.

## Architecture Constraints
Workstations, servers and RasPi nodes are using similar operating systems.

- Every workstation and server is using Ubuntu as operating system.
- Every RasPi node is using Raspberry Pi OS (which is based on Debian) or Ubuntu Server as operating system.

This is a constraint that is not likely to change in the future.

## Contact
Feel free to contact me via <sebastian@sommerfeld.io> or [raise an issue in this repository][file-issues].
